---
id: 55
title: '3D In 2D Canvas'
date: '2016-01-04T13:06:09+00:00'
author: namanyayg
layout: post
guid: 'http://symmetrycode.com/?p=51'
permalink_old: /2016/01/04/3d-in-2d-canvas/
categories:
    - Uncategorized
---

In my recent [simulation of an AC generator](http://projects.namanyayg.com/acgen), I show the same device from two different views: A top view and a front view. To accomplish that, I used a clever technique called **3D Projection**. Here, I’m going to talk about how I did that in JavaScript and rendered it on canvas.

## What is 3D Projection?

Basically, it means that I *define* items in 3D space (each point is defined as an array `[x, y, z]`) and that I *plot* them in 2D space. For simplification, the 2D render can only be seen in the `xy`, `xz`, or `yz` plane.

## Defining in 3D

Each point is defined as an array, \[x, y, z\].

Since we are using Canvas, it is easiest to define a rectangular face as a 2D array of 5 points: The first vertex, the remaining 3 vertices, and then the initial vertex again. This allows us to `moveTo()` the first index and then `lineTo()` till the remaining length of the array.

Since faces exist in 2D, and we’re defining 3 coordinates per point, for a single face, either the x, y, or z, coordinate will remain constant for all points.

A cuboid is defined a 3D array of faces. Depending on our views, we might not need all 6 faces to define a cuboid and can get away with only two or three faces.

Example:

```js
var cuboid = [  
  // xy face
  [
    [xa1, ya1, za],
    [xa2, ya2, za],
    [xa3, ya3, za],
    [xa4, ya4, za],
    [xa5, ya5, za],
  ],
  // xz face
  [
    [xb1, yb, zb1],
    [xb2, yb, zb2],
    [xb3, yb, zb3],
    [xb4, yb, zb4],
    [xb5, yb, zb5],
  ],
  ...
]
```

## Rendering in 2D.

Since we’re defining faces parallel to the primary planes, it is easiest to render the views of the primary planes themselves.

Imagine a shape on the `xy` plane. All points that define it can be written as `(xi, yi, 0)`. Similarly, any shape on the `xz` plane defines all points as `(xi, 0, zi)`. Basically, whichever axis you’re *not* rendering the shape on is 0.

This makes things easy for us.

Creating a function called `plotFace`, which takes three parameters:

- `face`: The 2D array of points
- `path`: The path to plot the shape on
- `a`: The first axis of the plane
- `b`: The second axis of the plane

Since in our arrays, the 0 index represents x and so on, we can simplify the function if `a` and `b` are directly passed as integers.

The plotFace function basically `movesTo` the initial point and `linesTo` the remaining ones.

```js
function plotFace(face, path, a, b) {  
  var len = face.length;
  path.moveTo( face[a], face[b] );
  for ( var i = 0; i < len; i++ ) {
    var point = face[i];
    path.lineTo( point[a], point[b] );
  }
}
```

A simple `map` through all faces and using `plotFace` on each can plot the entire shape to a single path.

```js
path = new Path2D();  
ctx.beginPath();  
item.faces.map(function(face) {  
  plotFace(face, path, a, b);
})
ctx.closePath();  
```

Finally, rendering the context using `fill()` will get our shape.

```js
ctx.fill(path);  
```

…And we’re done!

## What’s next

Currently, we’re only projecting in the `xy`, `xz`, or `xy` plane. Next would be to be able to project in *any* arbitrary plane. I have yet to figure out the math for it, and I’m trying to do it without external help, so it might be a while before I publish a new article.

After that, perhaps manually raycasting to create shadows? That could be interesting, both aesthetic and performance wise.

## Further Reading

- [3D Projection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_projection)